chipless vs chia-pet
make a golbal view of the overall signals


DNase
use histone clustering to find some directions
do the survey carefully to know the status
plot the heatmap to check individual


Faire
literature review: active promoter coverage
literature review again!: peak calling methods
plot signal distribution
verify the training sets with cross correlation
purify the data -- align the regions, fix the length. garbage in, garbage out
study CENTDIST: it's easy to understand and I can learn the flow


peak calling of F
check the overlap with DNase: DnoF, DF, FnoD -- FnoD has low coverage of TF


what a phd does:
define a problem, solve a problem, write down the solution, present it


3 types of requirements
1. computational challenge -- soc
2. biological features -- paper
3. program robustness -- tool user


random talk
build a solid base: study the existing methods into the very detail. Learn the structure, think about why only your method works.


think
how to choose the model for fitting


Faire -- show the exp results
set up the experiments properly: same input, same output, same validation
ex. H1hescFP can beat H1hescUCSC, but can't beat H1hescRep1_Fseq


make a confident observation -- boundary info of ATAC
heatmap of ATAC log(p/m) at the +200 and -200


experiment design
write down the list of experiments and do it one by one
compare all the combinations
show in the excel chart


research in CS
0. real-life applications
1. definition of data storage
2. definition of the problems in a computational way
3. developing programs to solve the problems
4. validate that the solution is meaningful


feature testing
define a positive set, a negative set, input the feature, show the ROC


Attention!
K is not introducing computational problems to you!


Think a question not only in a syntax level, but in a semantic level


information hidden behind the features
ex. two identical distributions, one always odd, one always even. -> can't differentiate using distribution



You're not doing science. You are just considering about graduation.
Enjoy the process.


plot boxplot and histogram together


signal processing
Like FT(time -> frequency), the biological signals may be decomposed into several signals


research steps
	look into the data
	think of the data generation and make assumptions
	validate or devalidate the ideas by collecting statistics
		use fast, simple statistics
		the features may hide very deep. need to think of a better statistics
	make simple methods handling the validated ideas
	apply mathematical models to improve the performance


Pile up the fragments
	pile up 150- seems to have good result
	In fact, this may be trivial: pile up all fragments yields similar result


biological story
	People don't care about methods: there are too many methods. It's hard to really claim that the method is dominantly better. People care only the biological story


use the real answer to do supervised learning. If the supervised learning is not good, then no need to proceed to the following steps.

